Splinterstice is a decentralized web-based IM(instant messenger) designed with free speech absolutism at its core, as to circumvent the pitfalls of centralized control and by that extent, online censorship. Those being issues that unfortunately are more often than not directly perpetuated by, if not, at the very least enabled by entities on the clearnet. This, in turn, has been what's lead to superficial polarization and groupthink within so-called "online communities" of all sort, that inhabit all sorts of spaces on the clearnet, amongst various other issues that stem from those aforementioned issues.

Hence, why Splinterstice is to serve as not only a more privacy-focused, but overall secure communication alternative to platforms such as Discord, KiwiIRC, Revolt, XMPP, along with any based in the Fediverse, the Matrix messaging protocol, as well as anything else that's solely (if not primarily) based within the clearnet. One of the key things that truly sets Splinterstice apart, is its focus on niche online groups operating in what can broadly be described as "miscellaneous hidden services" within specifically Tor and I2P. That's due to these groups hailing from hidden services that don't fall under the typical labels of either "dark-web"(illicit/explicitly illegal hidden services) or "deep-web"(research-oriented hidden services that can technically be often found on the clearnet anyways).

Splinterstice's primary target demographic are individuals who inhabit these specific types of hidden services, which have been chosen due to also being the same exact criteria that a .onion or eepsite needs to fall under to be considered a "miscellaneous hidden service":

- Currently up and running eccentric/niche hobbyist .onion sites and eepsites.
- Currently up and running obscure .onion and eepsite imageboards.  
- Currently up and running niche interest forums on Tor and I2P.
- Currently up and running shitposting .onion sites and eepsites.
- Currently up and running .onion sites and eepsites whereas the sort of memes shared on there are too intense or shocking for being posted anywhere on the clearnet i.e NSFL(in this context meaning generally disturbing, not just gore) memes.

By having those smaller niche online groups make up Splinterstice's online environments, Splinterstice thereby ensures higher quality posts without interference from mainstream or centralized platforms. This is largely in part, due to those groups ultimately being as niche as one can get regarding anything online-related, in our current era, meaning that they're even more niche that the recent "indie web" craze that's been making rounds across the clearnet.
